The Joe Rogan experience. So Jimmy Smith,
once the first time they have you working well,
I'm doing the pre and post for two 20. Okay.
So you're in the Fox desk in California. In California. Yeah. And then.
Um, they have they've, they've offered me, uh,
a couple and I've accepted them, but they haven't. Yeah. Yes.
I don't know if it's official yet, but soon, soon as I'll put it,
they just color. I'm assuming.
They just trust you or you don't have to do any,
like test shows or anything like that. Cause I've heard it guys.
I've heard of guys doing test shows. I try people out and.
Not that I'm aware of. No. I mean that's already. Yeah. I mean obviously,
you know what the you're doing? Yeah. It's.
I would imagine that the real hard gig has gotta be finding one,
them play by play guys that doesn't annoy the out of you. Here's the.
Deal. That's a real job like that. Colors, colors,
easy doing play by play. That's a real job. That's like they do a lot more news.
Anchor was that.
Different gene coloring and play by play is, is,
were specific to a particular sport.
And we can call grappling and combat sports and whatever, uh,
play by play guys do I'll do basketball one week and then hockey and then this,
and then that gets, it's a job, but there are a lot more of them. You can go,
okay, he's good at basketball and soccer, you,
you can see a body of work before they jump in.
Because a lot of times it's we need a guy who knows a sport and they're only so
many.
Yeah. It's a very different job, very different skillset. But.
People get they're real angry. If you don't know MMA,
if you're like a play by play guy and you say some goofy and you don't really
know the sport, they do,
they get out. I'll forgive you either. They don't.
If they don't think you really know the sport or really love the sport,
those two things are critical. Yeah.
You have to really know it and really love it. Otherwise,
otherwise they're like, you. People hated me.
When I w when I commentated for Kingston.
That'd be. So I had to say something stupid. Every show I had to say,
he just did.
It. They just showed it. They just show the,
the big Jeremy Stephens haymaker.
Oh, I saw sucked. Oh my God. That was terrible.
Think of it as a, you know what? You were really good at.
You were really good as the guy in between the rounds that was explained,
uh, who won the fight. Like when you, you and I,
people don't even remember this, but we worked together. Uh,
it would be Goldberg and me, and then for a bunch of cards,
you would be beside.
Us. He was a scorecard guy. Yeah.
So he had, but Eddie had a real system, like we talked about it and I was like,
how are you doing this? And he had a,
like a really well thought out system where he had a line down a piece of paper
and he had a bunch of categories.
And he had all these different things where there was take downs or,
and so he marked all these things on top of watching the fight.
He wanted to know, like, be able to look down on it, like, wow,
he landed all these right hands.
Look at the end of the fight. Yeah. They go to me.
I have to talk about what happened in the first time I gave him the second.
Cause remember that second he had two takedowns, but if I didn't write it down,
I would forget. Yeah. So as I'm waiting to go on,
I'm revealing that first round. I'm remember, you know, it's,
it's a lot easier to see what, what actually happened. Cause you forget.
Or anyways, I do, I would forget unless I wrote it down.
The funniest thing to me or the most frustrating thing in music is they wanted
me to do scorecards calling unofficial scorecard, you know, whatever,
just like you did. And I would do it.
And every time I never wrote down a number without explaining what I
was talking about. I gave it tonight as close round,
but I gave it because of this, this and this,
and people would always act like you just threw out a numb without saying
anything. What was he thinking? I said, what I was thinking,
I ex I never just wrote down nine, 10. I always said,
and here's why here's you may disagree.
But here's my logic behind what I'm saying. You can disagree with me. Fine.
But the people that act like I just write down a number without explain.
It's insane.
I'm so not going to miss that. Commentators.
The interviews. Once I said congratulations to Randy couture. I said,
congratulations, Chuck.
No, that's what you did. And I didn't realize, I said that.
Out of the octagon, uh, who was it? Joe Silva goes, dude. He said,
congratulations, Chuck. I said, what.
What? I thought I was.
Going to get fired right there. And I went up to Joan and said, dude,
did I say congratulations, Chuck? He goes, you go, yes. I'm like, oh no,
this is mine.
I totally thought I was getting fired. Oh, 100. I can talk.
About this because we joke about it. We joked about it and belt over it. But uh,
uh, Jen brown, one time we were in and it was alive, it was a live piece.
It was just at the house. So it didn't go out on air or anything.
It was just for the house. Jim brown football, Jim brown, Jim brown,
Jim brown does stand up stuff for both. Okay. We were in, uh, Vacaville,
Oklahoma. And she said we had been in Kansas the week before. And she goes, Hey,
Kansas. And.
The, she goes pretty. She goes.
Oh, you know that they really didn't. They really didn't react much. And she.
And the guy goes, you said Kansas. We're in Oklahoma.
And uh, we laugh about that. We always joke about.
I love jam, but like, yeah, for weeks it was what state are we in?
We just met forever. But it was just an in-house piece.
It didn't go out on TV or anything. It's hilarious. Lucky.
We've all done. We've all messed up.
People were talking.
I've called over a thousand fights. I've up a bunch of, oh man,
the Brittany's human brain just doesn't work. Perfect. You make mistakes.
Sometimes.
Which drives me crazy is I have a very good recall for flights and for
scenarios and positions that people have been in and ways guys won.
But occasionally there'll be a guy and I can't remember his name.
And it's like weird it's but it's a guy that I've seen fight a lot.
Like Jorge Mazda dollar, someone like that.
But I seen him fight a hundred times. Like, how the do I,
why isn't that one coming out? It's like,
the brain is just not a perfect vehicle.
It just doesn't always work. Right. It's like a range Rover.
They look beautiful. The range rovers work most of the time,
you know what I'm saying? Like,
I have a friend who has a range Rover and I asked him, I said, Hey,
do you like that car? I was like, yeah, this is my second one.
My last one was a lemon. I knew it. And he's like, it's a great car.
It's amazing. When it drives [inaudible] it's like how a brain is.
It's not always good. You saying congratulations, Chuck,
and then leave. And you're like,
I do that all watch flights.
Not necessarily yours, of course.
But I'll watch somebody calling a fight and I'll know when they spaced on the
name. They'll they'll start going.
You know that? Cause on your you're watching you go. He spaced on his name,
dude. It's almost to be basketball, football, whatever. But I'll go.
I'll know. As a broadcaster. I'm like, he spaced,
he looked at his notes and he got the name back, but he's based on the name.
And it happens a hundred percent for happens all the time.
Big fear is that I'm going to be interviewing a fighter after a
fight. And then I can't remember their name when I congratulate them.
The biggest fear, bro.
I, no, that's not just you dude. That's mine too. Before I go out there,
I will write it. Like if it's a dude I've never seen quite before,
like maybe one by first round knockout, I've never seen a fight before.
I'm like, oh, who is this guy? He might've come from, you know,
CFA or something like that. I'll write his name down. I'll read it.
I'll say it back. I'll repeat you.
You might see me walking to the stage to the cage.
And I got my earpiece in and I'm saying, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'm saying his name. I don't want to.
Up. You are not alone though. Do that. Fear is.
Huge because you're thinking of a question to cause you to think about what to
ask them.
And we on air when we're saying this,
we talking about interviewing fighters is literally the.
Hardest part of the job because they're your heart because you don't have.
Time to prepare for it. And then you have time to ask him one,
maybe two questions that said, no,
everyone has their own question in their own head that they want to ask.
And if you don't come up with something entertaining or creative,
um, you know, people talk on you.
It's also very important.
This is what I tell people that are just trying it out for the first time.
And then anybody,
any young people that are thinking about getting into MMA commentary,
you're the, you're not the show like you are,
you are just trying to extract information out of this person.
Like your question should be just to lead them.
I try to have as little personality and those things as possible.
I'm just trying to just give you the platform. Yeah.
I'm just trying to give you maybe a path to take your answer.
I saw some beautiful things happen in the fight. I want to,
I want you to express what happened in your mind or maybe there's some adversity
that you had to go through. I want to know how bad it was,
but I don't want to be there. I'm just,
I'm just the guy that has to say those words.
They hated. Post-fight I've never enjoyed that flip.
Side of that though, that I've run into personally. Um, you know,
an overdoing it too is if your question, isn't a, you know, Hey,
great performance tonight, man. If it's too open and a lot of times they go,
yeah, you know what I mean? If you,
if you don't ask them something a little specific, they'll just kind of go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, if you don't say, oh great.
You know the tire they're out of breath.
So it's that you want them to go wherever they want to.
Go. But also if you don't ask something specific enough, sometimes they'll go.
Yeah.
It was how your pants with some of the dozens. Oh,
those are rough back and forth. But honestly.
Sometimes it gives you more time.
I always try to talk slow and give them some,
I try to simplify what I'm saying, but even then I still,
sometimes I that up. You know? It's just, it's one of the weirder jobs. Yeah.
I never.
Liked it. I never liked that at all. I never really liked commentating. Yeah.
I tried to get DC when DC was doing it because DC was doing a few of them.
Like we were doing it and I go, oh, that's your job now, bro. He's like, that.
You're doing that. Joe Rogan. Get in. There I go. No, no, no man.
I'm are you doing a good job? I like sitting here. I'm just going to sit back.
He was like, that. Cause he was doing like the fight pass prelims.
Unless you're in the industry,
you'd be surprised at how many people don't realize that there's a play by
play guy and a color. They just seem to dudes talking. Yeah. That'll no,
I didn't. I was a grown man.
When I first got offered the job at king of the cage.
I didn't know the difference. I just thought, yeah, there's two dudes,
two old dudes talking.
They're just chit-chatting I didn't see the system in the,
and there's a problem.
Though. The problem in MMA is that the color guy is the martial arts expert
and the, but the play by play guy is this, the news guy is just the guy,
but the play by play guy in sports is kind of calling what's happening as well.
He's saying, you know, they're moving the ball, they're doing this,
they're going this, this formation. But when you're calling a fight,
especially when the fight goes to the ground that played by play guys not really
saying anything, right? Yeah.
He could say he's in the Mount, in the mountain taking big shots in the Mount.
You don't have to be an expert to tonight a little.
Bit, but he's basically, he's like,
like when gold Goldie and I had a great rhythm because Goldie like kind of laid
off when it, especially when it would go to the ground,
he would lay off and he would just sort of like, you know, he would set me up,
like, he'd say in any, moves into the Mount position or he would say, you know,
something like that. And then he would just lay it up for me.
And then I would elaborate on the progression of techniques and where they were
at. Yeah. Yeah.
That's what he's supposed to do. Um,
that's the hardest job ever. I didn't know.
So I get this job, bud.
Brotzmann he takes over the production part of king of the cage.
And he wants to use me as a commentator.
Cause we went to the producer and went to John jock Machado academy.
He knew me as the NNA fanatic guide. And he asked me if I wanted to commentate.
And I said, yeah. I'll try it. I didn't know. Those first king of the cages.
He didn't know that that was a difference between a play by planet color guy.
The producer didn't know the difference because once I started really listening
to the broadcast and the UFC,
I started listening to the opening and how they open. I go, oh,
there's two jobs here. This guy is, this guy is just a news Telecaster.
And this other guy's the expert didn't even really realize it.
I thought they were both experts. I thought, I thought there were two.
Bit for jobs, man. Yes, exactly. Once I.
Realized that I talked about, I said, Hey, listen, there's two jobs going on. I.
Don't want to be the play-by-play guy. I want to be the color guy. He said,
do both. You're going to do both. I go all sports.
Don't have guys that do both. You have a color guy and you have a plate. Like.
You explain that to the producers. Just the, to the producer,
the producer to the firm. That's never done. He'd never done sports before.
So he didn't understand.
He just said, dude, you're going to do both. Both of you, me and Don,
the dragon Wilson. We were.
Just in there winging it. It was so bad.
What's terrible. And up to these days.
I have no idea. I have no idea. But those,
those are some of the worst shows ever for commentary.
First. Yeah. I own it so hard on it.
And then you did some for pride too.
People forget about that.
10, probably 10 with the Hanzo.
And Sakuraba when handle that Mexico got headbutted by Vandelay Silva.
You were saying that Enzo, that soccer,
I would never go to submit Hensville yes. That was.
One of the biggest blunders ever soccer.
Robin has the Camorra grip in and they're standing. And I said,
I'm in the commentary. I said, that may.
Work at his gym, but that turns out Gracie. It's never gonna work on him.
And then boom, he breaks his arm on cue.
I call a fight, maybe working at the gym. Do you work here?
There was a guy ed west ed wild west was fighting and he had never knocked
anybody out. Really good striker, but like, you know, put her pack in a striker.
And I literally said, man, Ed's Lennon, crepe, but not a knockout guy.
And he instantly knocks him out. First.
One of his career right there, right in front of him. I'm like.
He did that just to make me look stupid.
Thanks. That's what it happens. The job, man. Never.
It's almost like the universe is punishing you for hubris.
Like you're pretending, you know, more than you do.
Shut the up. Say it looks good. It's deep. Yeah.
Seriously. That habit of going, who knows? Probably will. But it was,
you know, no, there was.
One fight. Fernando Vasconcellos fought this one guy and he schooled him. Yeah.
Oh dude. I.
Forgot about [inaudible].
One of the great guys that you just never really did.
It. Freezing and communicates. Remember that. He was good. Carl him up.
Didn't he?
Yeah. And.
And he in a fight that he won because he won, I think two straight. He was,
he w he had good hands and, uh, he wrestled and, um,
uh, he had a guy, he passed a guy's guard and had him in north south.
And I said, this position is called. Some people call it north, south.
But if you look in an old judo books, it's actually called the teabag.
And then I just kept going. And Don the dragon, I never stopped.
And.
I would just throw those. That's all we're talking about.
Just having fun just to do it. We didn't take it seriously. Oh, I was.
And bud loved it. The Terry Terry triple,
the owner hated it. He hated it, but loved it.
The producer loved it every.
Now and then I would say some crazy wild,
but Terry hated and the director. No, no, no. Terry loved it. What am I saying?
The director, Steve, he hated it. He was begging me to stop.
The directors.
Tend to be that wasn't being professional, but nobody,
but the owner didn't care. He loved it. So.
Um, anyways, I sucked regardless, but
I'm a retard. We're all in.
The right spot where we want to be. I'm not born.
To commentate. That's not my thing. I look like now when people offer me jobs,
like I'm like, I don't want to commentate. I want to just enjoy the fun.
Just literally.
When I said to Dana, when he forced me into doing it,
don't you remember when you and I used to get free tickets? I don't.
Want to start doing, I want to watch it. I started lacks doing.
Commentary because I would get free tickets from the UFC. And this was like,
when the UFC first started going to Vegas and Eddie and I were like to the
UFC's.
In Vegas, this is crazy. We got to go.
And Dana white somehow, or another found out that I was a fan.
So he started sending me. He's like, Hey, we'll fly you out.
We'll give you free tickets, my.
And so we started going and hanging out with him and I started doing commentary
because when we'd hang out, I'd be like, have you ever seen saccharine?
You do watch pride. What do you watch overseas? Like,
if you've seen any of the shooto fights, I'm like, you gotta see this guy.
And I started telling him about this guy and that guy. And he.
Knows my favorite man. Yeah. All soccer. I.
Love amazing, amazing fights.
So I started talking to him about all these crazy fights and he had never heard
of, and he's like, do you want to do commentary on the next thing?
And I was like, oh, I don't want it to, I don't want to work.
And then boom, I did 18 shows for free.
I was sitting alone for a type of shows.
All by myself, VIP front row.
I didn't come here to be by myself.
We saw some classic.
[Inaudible].